We always enjoy this part at our Gilead graduations, the student experiences that they've had
from the field activity while they were at school, Kenneth Olson, a instructor with the
ocratic schools department, will handle this part, and they have the theme, the scene
of this world is changing.
The Apostle Paul once wrote to the congregation in Corinth, the scene of this world is changing.
And in doing so, he likened the world to a stage with actors playing their various roles
until a change of scenes, so surrounded by the potential distractions of the world there
in the first century, our brothers needed to give priority to spiritual matters.
Through worship had to come first, and in an important way they showed that they kept
their spiritual focus was through their obedience to Jesus' command, to preach and teach,
and they did this in various ways.
Notice the example of the Apostle Paul at Acts chapter 17, verse 17.
Here in Acts chapter 17, verse 17, it says, so he began to reason in the synagogue with
the Jews and the other people who worshipped God, and every day in the marketplace with
those who happened to be on hand.
So we noticed that Paul in the marketplace was ready to talk to whoever happened to be
on hand.
He didn't know who they would be, but he was ready.
So the principles that apply then apply now, because many of the concerns that people
had back then, people have now.
And so our work is like it was in the first century.
Now as brother and sister Cook were traveling to Gilead School, they like Paul were ready,
they were alert to speak with those who happened to be on hand.
This time it was not in the marketplace, it was at a train station.
And notice how they were ready to discuss various topics as we watch this video reenactment.
Thank you so much, Manny, for helping us with the bags, we really appreciate that.
Well, you have certainly held a lot of bags, where are you going?
We are going to Paterson, New York, to attend a Bible school for the next six months.
Really?
A six month Bible school?
Well, that is amazing.
Yeah, with your Hover's Witnesses, Manny, I'm sure you've heard about us, there's our
little card.
Yeah, I have seen you have a Witnesses going from door to door, you know, even you go out
with, whether it's really cold, I have a lot of respect for you people.
Oh, thank you.
Well, we love sharing the Bible message with people.
Here, Manny, on the back of this track, there's a QR code, and it takes you to our website,
JW.org.
So on there, there's publications you can download and read, but also there's a section
that answers questions you might have about the Bible.
That's good.
I have some questions.
In fact, my mother died last year, so she's suffered for such a long time.
Yeah.
So sorry to hear that.
We are very sorry, losing someone dear must be so difficult.
Yeah, well, it kind of affected my faith, you know, she was a wonderful person.
Why do you have to suffer like that?
I can understand you feeling that way, Manny.
When you've lived a life like your mom, and she's been such a good person, and then she
suffers like that.
I mean, it's difficult to bear, isn't it?
It's difficult to bear.
This track, it's asking the question, will suffering ever end?
Do you think that's the sort of question you're really asking?
Yes, it is.
Well, thank you.
Thank you very much.
You know, I can stay with you until your little friend comes for you.
Oh, thank you.
Thank you very much.
I've been thinking about all of these.
You know, the whole world is a mess.
We agree with you, but why is it a mess?
I can show you another track.
It does have an interesting question.
It says, who really controls the world?
And you'll be surprised to know the answer.
Notice what the Bible says.
The evil one controls the whole world.
So did you notice who is in control?
What does the Bible says?
The devil means the devil?
That's right.
Well, then explain why the world is in such a part conditions.
And you know, money, the Bible says that God has set up a kingdom
that is going to overrule the devil.
And also, he's going to bring the suffering to an end.
May I have that background for you?
Of course, yeah, this is for you.
I just wanted to point, on the back again in this track,
is our website that Richard just mentioned?
If you would like, you can go there and you can ask for somebody
to come and visit you.
And you can discuss all the questions you have.
And they will answer you from the Bible.
Oh, well, thank you very much.
You are welcome.
Oh, this is our drive.
Yes.
Pleased to meet you.
Nice to meet you.
Thank you for coming.
Thank you.
Well, it was a pleasure meeting you.
Thank you, Manny.
We really appreciate all your help.
Thank you for your help.
Bye-bye.
Goodbye.
So did you see how brother and sister cook were prepared?
They had literature ready.
They didn't know who it would be or what the topic would be,
but they were ready.
Another way that our first century brothers and sisters
obeyed Jesus' command is found at Acts 5, verse 42.
And Acts 5, verse 42, it says there,
and every day in the temple and from house to house,
they continued without let up,
teaching and declaring the good news about the Christ Jesus.
So it says they went from house to house.
Now, this was shortly after Pentecost of 33 CE.
And already the young congregation is active
in the door-to-door ministry,
talking to people face to face.
And this work is still at the centers,
at the forefront of our worldwide preaching effort.
So contacting people directly helps us
to help them individually.
Now, in the first century, Jesus helped people face to face
very often with the resurrection hope.
He built them up, gave them hope.
Now, we do the same.
Now, we're very often when we talk to people
from house to house.
We're there, we have a scripture, we're prepared,
we have a topic we want to talk about.
And all of a sudden, the householder
will talk about what's on their mind and heart.
Essentially, they changed the subject.
So what do we do?
Well, an alert teacher will follow the concern
of the householder and address that concern.
So watch how Brother Manzulu
followed the householder's concern
and comforted him with the resurrection hope
when he was invited into a man's home
for the very first time and see how he changed the subject
and Brother Manzulu followed it.
Thank you for inviting us in.
You're welcome.
How will you describe the situation in the world today?
I lost my wife a few years ago and life is not easy.
We are so sorry to hear that you lost your wife.
That must be difficult to deal with.
It is difficult, but I know you're going to say
that there's the hope of the resurrection
and that with a little bit of money,
I'll be able to see my wife again,
but I don't know if I believe that.
Did someone say to you that you need to pay something
like money to see your wife again?
Yes, that's what the church said.
Oh, I'm so sorry to hear that.
But really, do you believe that God needs our money?
Of course not.
But I don't believe that the resurrection is true.
What is your point of view?
Where do we come from?
I guess, of course, there had to be some person that made us.
Life just couldn't have came about by itself.
So I would say that person is God.
So let me give you an example.
Suppose that you own a company that makes a cause.
Let's say you make Mercedes fans
and you decide to give a new one to your friends.
It's very happy.
But the very first day in drive that car, he has a crush.
Then he called you, he said, instead,
you know, I just had a crush.
What will you say?
Just bring it back, I'll fix it.
But what if he said to you, friends,
I'm not sure he will fix it.
It's totally broken.
What will you say to him?
If I made it, I can fix it.
I can even make a new one.
You know, when something does not work properly in our body,
or let's say when our body stops working, we call it death.
But actually, from the point of view of the one who created life,
we can say this is just like a crush.
Would you agree with that?
Yeah, I would agree with that.
And when this happened, usually we are very sad
because that person that died may be someone who really loved.
But could the one who created life be able to fix the problem
or recreate that person?
Yeah, he should be able to do that.
But you know, we three years,
we've never seen someone rest from the dead.
So talking about the resurrection,
must be something strange to us.
And God understand that.
But you know what Jesus said in the past when he was here on Earth.
He says something very interesting.
And I would like to share it with you.
It's in, it's found in the book of John chapter 5 verse 28 and 29.
And while Shula might be reading that scripture,
please try to imagine that God is speaking to you personally.
Please Shula, can you read it?
John 5, 20, 18, 29.
Do not be amazed at this.
For the hour is coming in which all those in the memorial tombs
will hear his voice and come out.
Those who did good things to a resurrection of life
and those who put its vice things to a resurrection of judgment.
God knows that may look impossible to you,
but he shows us that this will take place.
It's clear now.
You know, there are many other good promises
in the Bible from God for human kinds.
And if you want, we can help you to know them.
Yeah, I would like that.
Did you see how brother in Banzulu was willing to drop the topic
he wanted to talk about and follow the concern of the man instead?
Very loving and very alert.
Now in the first century, there were many different ideas
and philosophies of life.
Pontius Pilate expressed one when he said to Jesus,
what is truth?
And he said that rather scornfully,
but today, some feel unsure if it's possible to know truth.
Well, our first century brothers would often find common ground
with someone to reason with them and help them see the point.
And we do the same today.
Watch how sister Martinez found common ground
to reason with a man who seemed unsure
if it were possible to know truth.
Good morning, sir.
Good morning.
I'd like to find you here and we're asking people
in the area of question and I'd like your opinion.
Okay, sure.
Do you think that it's actually possible for us
to get to know what the truth is living in a world
where more have truths exist?
No, I don't think so.
Nobody has the truth.
I'm sure you have your own religion
and in fact, your own translation of the Bible.
And everyone's entitled to believe what they want to believe.
Yeah, we all have the right to believe in what we want to believe in.
But do you think that God wants us to get to know what the truth is?
Yeah, sure.
You know, I noticed that you have an accent.
If you don't mind me asking, where are you from?
Oh, I don't mind.
I'm from Ecuador.
Oh, wow.
You know, I've been living in South America
for the past few years with my husband.
Oh, really?
What country?
In Paraguay.
Oh, yeah.
Okay, I know Paraguay nice.
Yeah, you know, they speak Spanish there also
and they have a little bit of an accent.
They also use certain expressions that are unfamiliar for me.
But generally, I could understand what they're saying.
True, it is slightly different.
This reminds me of when we study the Bible.
For example, the translation that we use,
they're in many languages.
The Bible that we have in Spanish
wasn't originally in Spanish, it's a translation.
And although one Bible may differ slightly from one another,
even within the same language,
they generally convey the same idea.
Yeah, that makes sense, sure.
Now, do you think that God is aware
of these apparent difficulties that exist?
Hmm, good question.
Yeah, I think so.
Yeah, He definitely has to know.
And you know, he actually encourages us
through the Bible to get to know what these truths are.
These truths are revealed clearly here.
And this Bible text at 1 Timothy,
2, 3 and 4 that I'd like to read to you.
It says, this is fine and acceptable
in the sight of our Savior, God,
whose will is that all sorts of people should be saved
and notice this part, come to an accurate knowledge of truth.
Okay.
Not have truths.
Right.
So God is really concerned about us coming to an accurate knowledge of truth.
Now, do you think that this is possible
if we dedicate research in the Bible on a superficial level?
No, I don't think so.
You can't come to accurate knowledge like that.
It's impossible.
Yeah, I think the same way.
It really means that we have to investigate
in what God's trying to tell us in such a large book.
You know, I have this book with me
that has this very interesting theme.
What does the Bible really teach?
And it reveals what those Bible truths are.
I would like to get this available to you.
I only have it in English.
Okay.
How can I do this?
Well, I have to leave now.
I have to go to work.
But I'll give you my contact information
and then we can make arrangements.
Oh, that sounds great.
Yeah.
Okay.
No doubt you saw how Sister Martinez was able to use things
that they had in common to help the man reason about the point.
Now, we've seen so far as students preaching
in a train station, people's homes, a parking lot.
Well, really Jesus set the example
about reaching people wherever they may be.
Notice in Matthew, chapter 9, verse 9.
They're in Matthew 9, verse 9.
It says there, next, while moving on from there,
Jesus caught sight of a man named Matthew,
sitting at the tax office.
And he said to him, be my follower.
At that, he rose up and followed him.
So Matthew was sitting at the tax office.
He was in his place of employment.
So Jesus preached in business territory.
Well, that we do the same thing today.
We preach in business territory.
We try to reach people where they are.
Now, back in the first century, we know the main theme was
the kingdom.
This is the theme of the preaching work.
This is still the case today.
In our last reenactment, it takes place in a beauty salon.
Our sister's coming back to the woman's place of business
in order to cultivate the interest shown
in the very first conversation.
And notice how she directs attention to the kingdom.
Hi, Diane.
Hi.
It's so nice to see you again.
Today, I bought a video to show you.
It's called, does God have a name?
Does God have a name at a time and place
convenient for you?
So as you saw in the video, we all have names
to identify ourselves.
Your name is Diane, and my name is Claire.
So wouldn't it make sense for God to have a name
to identify himself with?
Sure, that makes perfect sense.
And did you know that the name Jehovah's in the Bible
about 7,000 times?
Wow, if it's in there that much, it must be important.
You know, Claire, I do read the Bible every day.
And I've been trying to get closer to God.
But it's not easy.
I'm so busy running the business and looking after my children.
And that's another thing.
I'm constantly worried about my children.
The world is just getting so bad.
I wonder about their future.
Yeah, I can imagine that it's not easy,
but it's good that you're looking to the Bible.
In fact, today I wanted to show you a verse
from Daniel chapter 2 and verse 44.
It says, in the days of those kings,
the God of heaven will set up a kingdom
that will never be destroyed.
And this kingdom will not be passed on to any other people.
It will crush and put an end to all these kingdoms
and it alone will stand forever.
Perhaps you've heard of people pray that our Father
and they're asking for God's kingdom to come.
They want to see God's will done on the earth as it was in heaven.
And really, that's what this kingdom is talking about.
It's God's government to bring an end to suffering in the world.
I would really like to see that change.
Yeah, we all want to see an end to suffering.
But what do you think?
Do you think God really has the power
to bring about these changes?
Of course, I think he has all the power.
Yeah, that's right. He does.
And he also wants to see an end to this suffering.
In fact, that's why it's so important for us
to try and learn as much as we can
about his purpose for the earth.
I would like to learn more about God
and what he's going to do for the future.
Yeah, that's so good.
I really enjoy speaking to you about this.
I was thinking, do you usually work here on Saturday mornings?
I do.
I work here just about every Saturday.
So if you come, we can sit down for a few minutes and talk.
Oh, I would really appreciate it
if we can have a little bit of time together
to talk about that subject.
Sure.
Thank you so much.
It was nice to see you today.
You too.
Bye-bye.
Our Gilead students have been doing a very good job
directing people to the kingdom as the only true hope
for a mankind.
Now, in the first century, our brothers and sisters
faced many of the challenges that are common today.
How should they view higher education?
How to keep focused on spiritual goals?
How to avoid the dangers of bad association?
Well, our Gilead students have faced
these very issues successfully.
And the decisions that they've made in the past
have helped them be here today.
Now, notice how our students met the various challenges posed
by what to do with higher education.
Potential distractions from their spiritual goals
and avoiding bad associations.
Would you like to meet some of our Gilead students
and get to know them just a little bit better?
Well, we have with us, brother and sister in Banzulu,
fallen Shulamai in Banzulu from Congo, Kinshasa.
We have brother Ella Faz and Nancy Rosenzweig from Israel
and sister Turkiana Gashi from Serbia.
And we're glad to have all of you with us.
Brother in Banzulu, let's start with you.
What spiritual goal did you set for yourself
as you were growing up?
I wanted to be a special pioneer.
Well, that's an excellent spiritual goal for a young man.
Now, once you set that goal, however,
potential obstacle arose.
Yes, this happened when I was 14 years old.
My father said to me that he would support me financially
and even pay for my education if I would like to be a lawyer
or a physician.
So he offered you free higher education,
but you had this other spiritual goal in mind.
What did you do?
I kindly explained to him that I had the goal
to be a special pioneer, so I declined his offer.
Well, that sounds like a good thing.
You kept your focus on spiritual matters.
What did your father think about that?
He was very disappointed because he didn't expect that answer.
He said to me, if I did not take his offer,
I would have to support myself.
And if in the future I have to face some difficulties,
I should not go back to him.
And he even mentioned that I was no longer his son.
And that hurt me deeply.
But I'm happy that I made that decision
because otherwise, I will not have benefited
from the highest education, the divine education
that I've enjoyed in Gilead.
Well, we know that it was not an easy situation
to face as a young man who had a lot of faith
and spiritual focus and we're glad that you did that.
So you went ahead with your goal of a special pioneer.
So when did you become a special pioneer?
I never did.
What happened?
I was invited to serve in Bethel
and I accepted that invitation.
Well, we know that Jehovah's bless you there, too.
Yeah, I receive many blessings in Bethel.
And one of them actually is my marriage with Shulamite.
It's really a gift coming from Jehovah
and that Shulamite loves to Jehovah
and support me in my service.
Yes, well, Sister Manzulu, now your father was Muslim.
Yes.
And what did he think about the family
being Jehovah's Witnesses?
My father never reposed it off.
He saw that it was good and even encourages.
All right, so that allowed you to set spiritual goals.
What spiritual goal did you set for yourself?
I wanted to be a special pioneer.
That's an excellent spiritual goal.
And what did your family think about that goal?
My immediate family was supportive.
But other in the family,
pressured me to pursue a education and travel to Europe.
That could help me in the temptation, but it was a trap.
Spiritual education is far more viable.
I'm glad I made a good decision.
You're welcome.
Well, so we're glad to.
So both of you really had to say spiritually focused there.
So you went ahead with your goal of being a special pioneer.
When did you become a special pioneer?
I didn't become a special pioneer.
I was invited to serve a better for two weeks.
And then I was invited to stay in better service.
Well, that's good.
You both remained focused on spiritual goals,
but flexible to Jehovah's direction.
And we're glad that you did.
Brother Rosen's bike.
Now, you come from a very spiritually active family.
What did your parents do to raise you
in such a fine spiritual environment?
It's true.
Today, when I'm looking back, I see that my parents did so much.
In addition to our family study,
my parents study with all five of us separately.
They went with us to service.
We read together the daily text.
And also, my father, he prayed with each one of us every night.
So what influence did that all have on your spiritual routine?
So I still pray every night with my wife.
And recently, I asked my brother and sisters
if they have the same habit till today.
And all of them say yes.
So all of us pray every night like we did with our father.
Excellent.
Well, I know that you met a spiritually-minded sister
in your congregation.
You got married.
And then what did you do to make yourself
more available to pursue spiritual goals?
So we began to simplify our life.
We avoid financial obligation.
And we expand our ministry.
After a while, we were invited to Bethel.
Well, it's excellent, wonderful invitation.
I'm sure you were very excited.
Now, when that happened, though,
a potential distraction arose.
Yeah, my employer really wants me to stay.
So he offered me a big raise, stocking the company, a car.
But the real riches are found in the full-time service.
And look, here we are, getting the divine education
that you have a provide.
Yeah, very true.
And now, Sister Rosenzweig, so when your husband
received the invitation to Bethel, obviously, it's to you, too.
And you also had some potential distractions
come at the same time.
True.
The same week we were invited to Bethel.
I got a phone call for a company that
offered me a well-paid job.
And just before that, I have said no to a full scholarship
to pursue more education.
And both of us got so many offer during that time.
It was very clear somebody is not happy about our decision.
Yes.
Now, your first name, Sister Rosenzweig,
doesn't sound very Israeli.
How did you come to be called Nancy?
So my father is from an Arabic background,
and my mom from a Jewish background.
As you know, in Israel, it's not so common for a Jew
to marry in Arab.
But this is what's so beautiful about our organization.
And the brothers and sisters in Israel
really give a good witness in this regard.
But still, my parent decided to make
both sides of the family happy and gave me an American name.
Very diplomatic of them.
And how did your parents help you
to have a spiritual environment in which
you could set good spiritual goals?
Both of my parents are really good student of the Bible.
And I would always see them prepare for the meeting.
We would never miss a meeting without a good reason.
Additionally, my mom, before she got married,
she was a special pioneer in both her and my dad.
They love talking about Jehovah and going out
in the ministry.
I know that your mother also made considerable effort
to cultivate your love for the ministry.
Yes.
There is one experience, and you really remember.
I was very young.
She took me to preach an unassigned territory
in a city near Mount Harmon, and we preach for some hours.
And after that, she took me to eat my favorite food,
humus and french fries.
Ah.
And how has their example influenced you until today?
And till today, I have good study habits.
I have deep appreciation for our meetings.
And I love talking about Jehovah.
And I still like humus and french fries.
Now, when you were in school, you
were different from all of the other children.
All of the other children were Jewish.
And we know that as a young person,
it can be especially difficult to be different from everyone
else.
How did you handle that?
For a while, I found it difficult
to speak about my religious and school.
But I not thought to myself, I need to be proud that I'm
one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
So I just decided to speak with one of my classmates.
And when I told her, she said, oh, now I understand why
you are so different.
And the conversation went so well.
I felt relieved.
And things were much easier at school after that.
So what advice would you have for young people
who are in school today?
I would say, just be proud that you are one of Jehovah's
Witnesses.
We're serving the best God and tell you
a classmate about it as soon as possible that will make you
happy and more important.
It will make Jehovah happy.
And he will bless your efforts.
Yes.
Sister Gashi.
Sister Gashi, you serve in Serbia.
You live there.
But you didn't grow up there.
I grew up in the Roma culture with the master background.
All right.
Now, I know that your father is fairly well-known
in the Roma community.
And there are some deeply held traditions
that had an impact on you concerning your schooling.
Yeah.
Culturally, among the Roma people,
it was expected that the oldest girls
stopped going in school when she is quite young.
So my father wanted me to stop to go in school.
And honestly, I was very unhappy because of that
because I really love to go in school.
So I told my father that I will respect his decision.
But also, I took the opportunity to explain to him
that he wanted to pioneer.
I explained to him what that meant, and he agreed.
Well, that was very good.
So you respected your father's wishes,
but also clearly set out your spiritual goals.
We're glad you supported you in that.
But now that you're out preaching in the town,
that must have called attention.
Yes.
A neighbor approached to my father about it, and he said,
you're Muslim.
Why do I allow your daughter to go house in the house?
And my father told to him.
He never had a problem with it.
His girls, since they start to study the Bible.
Oh, you're good conducts, spoke out there.
Now, we know that unfortunately war broke out
in the region, and Kosovo was affected.
And at that time, there were no brothers in the area.
There was no congregation, no meetings,
and even your father and brothers were not there.
At that time, leaving you, your sister, and your mother
to rely on Jehovah there.
And we know Jehovah can do that,
but it can be very stressful.
But there was an additional situation that arose.
Tell us about that.
Our neighbor had a basement and in his house,
and many of us, our area was bombed.
Many of us took shelter there.
Physically, it was safe.
But people talk about that, how we were going to die,
and about that horrible things that could be happened to us.
And it was very discouraging to listen to that.
I realized that was a bad association.
I had to make a change to keep spiritually alive.
All right, so you had the basement,
which served as a bomb shelter,
giving physical security, but it came with bad association.
So you said you had to make a change.
What did you do?
We stayed home, read the experience from the yearbook.
We held the meetings in our kitchen,
and also we read and started the Bible.
We prayed together.
This built up our faith and Jehovah help us when you were.
And what has been the result?
Jehovah has given me the best school here at the Gillette,
and also the best association with my fellow classmates.
Well, we thank all of you for sharing
some of your experiences involving decisions
that helped you be here today with Jehovah's blessing.
Well, the scene of the world is changing,
but our faithfulness to Jehovah remains steadfast.
May Jehovah continue to bless the students
of the 141st class of Gilead
and the entire worldwide brotherhood
as we work shoulder to shoulder to Jehovah's praise.
Thank you very much.
We always enjoy the experiences in the field
as well as their personal experiences.
Next brother, Ronald Kursin,
helper to the teaching committee.
It's going to interview others from the class
and the question and his theme is,
how will you use your gift?
We all love gifts.
We love to receive gifts and we like to give gifts.
And where do we get that from?
The originator of gift giving, Jehovah God,
he loves to give good gifts and perfect presents.
And of Jehovah's gifts, the insight in the scriptures say
that assignments of service in God's organization
are really gifts from Jehovah.
Those favored with assignments of service
by God's undeserved kindness
are also called gifts in men.
And we can say gifts in women.
And what do they do with this gift?
They're given to the congregation
in order that its members individually
might be built up and attain maturity.
Gilead School is a precious gift from Jehovah
that has enabled 141 classes to do just that.
Build up their brothers and their sisters.
The question is, how will the 141st class use this gift?
Well, let's find out.
We have four students that we would like to interview
to single students and a married couple.
First of all, we have Anita Shoomi,
who is originally from Austria.
We have Ben Pritchard from Britain
and a married couple from the United States,
Neil and Diane Ryan.
In preparing for this interview,
it was very heartwarming to learn that all four of you
received a precious gift from Jehovah.
And that is being raised in the truth
by God-fearing parents
who instilled a love for Jehovah in your hearts
as well as the pioneer spirit.
So eventually, all four of you pioneered.
But here's a question.
We'll start out with Anita.
What other gifts of service did you receive
from Jehovah before coming to Gilead?
After my schooling, I moved to France
and started pioneering.
There were many Tamil-speaking people in the territory.
So I started learning that language
and finally moved to Asia.
Then I was invited to serve in the Tamil field in Germany
as a special pioneer.
And after seven wonderful years there,
I was sent back to Asia, where I now am.
Thank you, and Ben.
A few years after attending the ministerial training school
in England, I was assigned to Bikina Faso in West Africa,
serving as a missionary,
which is where I've been serving up until now.
A big challenge for me was learning
the local African language called Moray.
And after about a year or so of learning
and struggling with the language,
I wasn't really up to reading the paragraphs
or saying a prayer at the book study.
However, it was at that point that I was invited
to take up the traveling work on the circuit
in that very language.
In fact, the first full length talk
that I did in the language was the needs of the circuit
at the circuit assembly.
But with Holy Spirit and a lot of patience
on the part of the brothers,
I was able gradually to get to Grasps
and with the challenge.
Jehovah certainly helped you.
Well, after Neil and I were married,
I went and joined him at Brooklyn Bethel
and we served there together until 2004,
and then we left to assist family.
And we pioneered together,
and then in 2009, our circumstances opened up
and we reapplied for Bethel's service.
However, we were encouraged at that time
to pursue other theocratic goals.
So that's when we started considering
serving in a foreign country.
And I must say, we were definitely nervous
about going to another country, foreign.
But we prayed about it and we did research.
And then we wrote 31 letters to various branches
to see if we could serve in their territory,
and we got invited to serve in Ghana.
So we've been at the Ghana branch for almost six years now,
and although we were very hesitant at first,
we're very glad we moved,
and we enjoy that assignment very much.
So no doubt, serving in a foreign country
has so many blessings, so many rewards,
but also it has its challenges.
So how have the local brothers and sisters
become gifts and men and gifts and women
to help you to adjust Anita?
Not only did they give me a lot of practical help
to settle in, they also patiently explained to me
the meaning and the feelings behind cultural habits,
and that's worth so much in order to adapt.
So despite cultural differences initially,
many brothers, they took me in like family.
I realized how much more I have in common
is my brothers in other countries
than with people from my birth country
or my language or my color who don't love Jehovah.
Listening to my brothers express their love
for the same father I love,
and seeing how he blesses them and helps them as he helps me,
I feel very close to them.
I feel at home.
We have a family wherever we go in the world.
We don't only call each other's brothers and sisters,
we really are, but what a gift.
And through their marvelous example,
many in this family, they taught me valuable lessons
in endurance, patience, devotion, hospitality, and so on.
They trained me so that I could even come here.
They're a very precious gift to me.
Thank you for sharing that, Ben.
My color means that everywhere I go,
I stand out as different to everyone else,
serving in the traveling work in rural areas.
It's very, very rare to see white people.
So the word that I hear called out to me
by the local people more than anything else
from morning to evening is nasara, which means white man.
It means that whatever efforts you make
to learn the local language and the customs,
you're nearly always viewed as an outsider.
So in contrast, though, the friendship and support
that I enjoy from the local brothers
really is a gift being taken in by the brothers
eating with them, living with their family,
and being treated by them as family,
whilst outsiders look on, perhaps surprised.
That really is special.
A favorite moment for me in services
when an African brother working with me
will introduce me as my brother.
And sometimes the reaction from the householder
is how can he be your brother?
He's white and you're black.
Then often the reaction will come from the brother.
Well, he's more my brother than anyone born
in the same village as me.
So when you hear that kind of statement
in those circumstances, it's really a gift.
But more than that, I think that the support and friendship
from so many brothers in my assignments
has helped me to keep a positive attitude.
And I can really say it's because of that,
it's because of them that I qualify to be here
and to enjoy this undeserved privilege of Gilead.
And because of that, I've really
filled the responsibility now to go back, get to work,
and to pass on to others the gifts
that I've been privileged to receive here.
Thank you.
And going to Ghana, what about Vienna?
What do you think about the local brothers and sisters?
How have they helped you?
I really appreciate the kindness of the brothers
and sisters in Ghana.
They go out of their way to help you.
And I remember when I was new to the country
going out in the ministry, I met so many interested people,
but I worried, how was I ever going to find them again?
Because the territory oftentimes doesn't
have street names and house numbers.
So I would just write a description of where I was.
And the brothers and sisters were so kind,
they wouldn't just tell me how to get back to my return
visits.
They always physically took me there,
even if they had to go out of their way to do it.
And that kindness has been repeated in so many different ways.
I don't have time to relate, but it
helped me not only to adjust to my assignment in Ghana,
but also to stay in it and even to be able to come here
to Gilead today.
And Neil, I'd say being in a new assignment
away from family and friends, you definitely
have your ups and downs, especially
in the beginning, but that scripture in Colossians 4
and verse number 11 helps me to see that my brothers
can be a source of great comfort or strength
and an aid to us.
And we definitely felt that with the satellites there
in Ghana and the congregation, they
were like a second family to us.
They invited us over for hospitality right away.
If you looked a little down, you got
an extra warm smile or a hug or an arm around you,
they just accepted us a part of their family.
And I can definitely say that's one of the main reasons
why we're still in that assignment.
And we really appreciate this gift
of the worldwide brotherhood.
It's really helped us to be where we are today,
the tasting of this undeserved kindness.
So a reoccurring theme that gifts in men, gifts in women
really have helped you to adjust.
And I'm sure you will use that going forward.
Now, you have received many gifts of training at Gilead
thus far over the last couple of months.
Is there a specific gem or a gift that
has really touched your heart that you would like
to share with us?
So often I was made aware of how little I measure up
to Jehovah's image in my personality.
And that awareness is good for developing more humility,
but it can be also quite discouraging at times.
It's a struggle to come to that sound mind,
that balance between, I'm not always an outstanding success,
but I'm not a constant failure either.
And the course was a marvelous training
and how not to concentrate on my strong points only.
That's unrealistic.
But also how not to concentrate on my weaknesses only
and then despair, because that's unhealthy as well.
And that ignores Jehovah's mercy and his patience with us.
And he showers us with his affections
and wants us to feel joy in serving him.
So I will continue to pray for Jehovah's help in this regard,
because I want Jehovah to feel more joy
when he watches my thinking and my feelings become
more balanced, more pleasing to him.
It's very well expressed.
We'll remember that at Ben.
For me, one point was regarding Abraham,
who after having as good as offered up Isaac,
never understood the rest of his life,
the reason why Jehovah asked him to do that specific thing
as a test of his faith.
However, he didn't then go on to negotiate with Jehovah,
either beforehand or after, as he had done 25 years before
with Lot and Sodom and Gomorrah.
He didn't obsess with the question, why would Jehovah
allow me to go through such a traumatic experience?
Why, why, why?
He just got on with faithfully serving Jehovah.
And in the resurrection, he, like us,
who understand the reason why,
he will come to understand the reason why and feel privileged.
So the application that was made, the question was asked of us,
what is your personal Isaac, perhaps a situation
in this system of things that will never be rid of
or a change of assignment, a reassignment,
another difficult change in our service,
rather than obsessing with the question, why,
why me, why did this happen?
Like Abraham, we should just carry on serving Jehovah loyally.
The end.
I really was affected by the lessons
in the growing spiritually section.
In one of them, the instructor used a vivid illustration
about, he said, we shouldn't let the 20 weeks of Gilead
pass by without lancing the boil and cleaning out the pus.
Well, as a nurse, I instantly got a mental image of that
because if someone does have chronic boils
and they don't do anything about it,
it could make them very sick.
So I thought in a spiritual way, if, through my in-depth study
of the Bible, I found negative qualities in my personality.
And I did nothing about it that spiritually,
that could infect my whole personality and make me spiritually
sick, and then not as useful to Jehovah
as I could be.
And Neil, a gem for you.
Well, time and again, it was sounded down into our minds
and deep within our hearts, that one remains useful to Jehovah
as long as one remains humble.
So I thought about that, that if I begin
to think that it's all about me or it's about my wife, Diane,
and really forget the much larger picture,
it's about Jehovah's sovereignty, his name,
the disciple making work and loving and assisting the brothers.
We've been sent there to assist.
Well, then we begin to focus on ourselves
and we damage our relationship with Jehovah,
and we damage those that we've been sent to help.
So throughout the course,
scriptural warnings were studied on King Uzia, King Saul,
and Korah, who started out as humble,
but they lost that humility and became very prideful.
They forgot the place that Jehovah had put them in.
And I won't forget a point made by a governing body member
that was relating what Brother Noor used to say
to the students, to Gilead students.
He said that if you leave Gilead with a bigger head
than a bigger heart, then we have failed you.
So we want to be very willing to be humble
and do whatever Jehovah has asked of us.
So how do you plan on using this beautiful gift
of Gilead training, Anita?
The whole Gilead experiences stressed how much Jehovah cares
for each of our brothers.
For example, in first Kings 10, 9,
we learned that Jehovah put Salaman in place as King,
not for Salaman's glory, but he was used as a channel
for Jehovah to show his love for Israel.
So likewise, Jehovah gave us this training here,
not for our glory, but for our brothers.
He equipped us to take care of our brothers
in a more loving way, to transmit the gifts
and Jehovah's love to them, make them feel his care
and strengthen their attachment to Jehovah.
So I'm eager to return and try my best to do just that.
As a little thank you to Jehovah for the marvelous time here,
but also as a thank you to my brothers back home,
to whom I owe so much.
Very good, and Ben.
It's true that Gilead has given us knowledge,
but Gilead isn't about knowing things.
So I want to keep in mind what Ephesians 3 verse 19 says,
the love of the Christ surpasses knowledge,
which means taking knowledge and then transforming it
into experience by imitation, imitation of Christ.
So I hope to be a better imitator of Christ
as I go back and serve with the brothers,
but that means not just imitating Jesus in my actions,
but also coming to have the same feelings
that Jesus has about things and about people.
In addition to that, Jehovah really has given me so many gifts
in men here at Gilead that have helped me to increase my love
for him, but also to have a real deep affection
for the organization that he's using.
So as I go back, I want to be a factor in helping others
to come to see how much Jehovah loves them
and see how wonderful the organization that he is using really is.
And last, we'll hear from the Ryan's, the end.
In Psalm 78, 5 through 7, it speaks of parents
making known Jehovah's reminders to the next generation
so they can put their confidence in Jehovah.
And I'd like to do something similar when I go back to Ghana,
especially with the young ones,
to share the many spiritual gems that I've been given
so that they can more fully put their confidence in Jehovah.
So I'd like to do that whenever I see them at the meetings,
we're talking before and after and working with them
in the ministry when they come over to visit me in my room
at Bethel, really, whatever opportunity I have
to share those gems with them.
And second Timothy chapter 2 and verse number 2 reminds me
that after we've received this beautiful training,
we have responsibility and that is in turn
to teach or train others.
So as I go back to my assignment,
I hope to keep learning from the brothers and sisters there,
but also to share these gems and gifts with them,
not as a heavy downpour that drowns our brothers and sisters,
but as a gentle shower that encourages them,
for example, I love to work with the young ones
and share the experience of young Samuel
when he went to the tabernacle
and how he has served Jehovah faithfully
despite the wicked influence of Eli's two sons,
and that they too can be faithful
despite the negative influence of this world around them.
If we share these gifts with the brothers and sisters
like a gentle shower, we'll show that we haven't
missed the purpose of this Gilead training
and that is to encourage and strengthen the brothers
and bring honor and glory to Jehovah.
We'd like to thank all four of you for your heartfelt comments
and you expressed yourself so well
and you represented the rest of your class so well.
So with Jehovah's help, we know that you will use
all the gifts that have been given to you
to be a gift to all those in your assignments.
Thank you.
Thank you very much for the present.
I was very refreshing.
I appreciate them sharing those thoughts.
Now we invite you to stand and we'll sing this
beloved song number 29,
walking in integrity, song number 29.